	I have been very interested in understanding what lies beyond 30, beyond my first job and the well laid path. It feels very uncertain, and perhaps that's alright. While I understand that life goes on the the lack of light, lack of glory, on the middle years makes it hard to see. Am I to settle in and raise the next generation for twenty years than fall off and retire at 50? I think not, it barely feels like anything has started in life why decide that sustaining is acceptable. 
	Perhaps I don't have the impulsive nature of my teens or the carefree nature of my early twenties, but I'm still someone who wants to go forth and experience life. The lack of experence makes it easier to create activities for a child or early adult, everything is new to them(, to us!). 
	I remember reading that we can never read all the books every written, there are simply too many. That was daunting to hear, so many human experences, all recorded away in the pages yet I could never have them all. How was I as a growing human to understand what I needed to read? What was something I should consume? How should I spend my precious time? The only people who I could look to were my parents and other adults around me. Each of them had taken many years to grow into the individual that they were today if they could offer a small morsel of their experence to me then perhaps I might be able to grow by leaps and bounds. 
	We don't need to start every generation from zero, we need to start them from what we know so that we can become the giants that they stand upon. The longer one has lived the more they can take the grand mysteries of the universe and aprichiate them, and help those of use growing and struggling with what it means to be alive and how to live with meaning. 
	Life has a tendancy to slip by when you can't see it flowing around you. Have you ever watched the sand flow across the beach? Or seen the wind rustle the trees? Hundereds, thousands, truely an incrible number of tiny things are working together to make that breeze and you can't stop it from flowing by but if you know what to look at you can see how they work. It is hard to know where to look and how to see what is truely happening. With no understanding of the wind you can not see how things near you are the same forces that effect the trees and sand. Each will feel seperate without the experenced viewer assisting and guiding the eye, helping create the connections from our selves to the world. The many connections and interconnections are hard to decifer without a higher understanding that can only be atained by spending time with a system. 
	I enjoy playing many video games and in one hundered hours I can gain a comprehension of the systems that make a game fun. Less than a week really. So every year I could learn about the systems of man, fifty to a year, gain mastery of them and engross my self in their secrets. Nature and the mind have a much higher order of complexity, it is said that one needs to spend ten thoudand hours to gain mastery in a skill. A young adult has mastry of so little, we may of played an instrument for a few years and fell off, learned a sport here and a dance there but never turely mastered them. So much of our time has been dedicated to learning about the world and how to become a better participant in it, it feels foolish to dismiss what comes after that. Each skill we know is rather rudimenty, what can be learned in twenty years could be improved in fourty, mastered in sixty and perfected in eighty. Perhaps it can be taken father still in eithty, I have seen dancers in their eithties that can dance many times over what a fledeling can by thirty. It is important to build engagement with youth for if they belive in the future they will create it. 
	This can be seen in many arenas, in technology we have the dreams of writers from the seventies in the palm of our hand because they engaged a generation. It is important to have a goal and have that be a larger plan than drive youth engagement, everything out there wants more eyeballs, more hours of face time, more clicks. Thats not a true engagement, and neither is setting up youth programs to encourage jewish babies. If you want to build a community then you need to offer people something with intrinsic value to them, and then they will support in building another generation. I fell out of the jewish community because I did not feel that it was a community I wanted to depend on with my life. That was the commitment I saw in building a jewish family. Showing me a parlor trick  with trips and youth camps did not make me feel like I was anything more than a resource to be corralled. 
	The values I learned are what kept me interested, they told me about life and were something I wanted to apply and grow from. My favorite class was called Torah and Tires, during which I studied the bible and learned how to fix bicycles. It helped me ground the knowledge with the understanding that it could be brought out to the road with me. It was not just a book but a way of life and something I could depend on to get me through the traffic that I found along the road. As a young adult I'm told I have all the answers, that I should show bravado but I'm still a lost lamb searching for inner peace.
	Removing the generational gaps and helping to integrate the community as a pillar of life, rather than a show, would make that community something I would want to turn to. Right now it feels like picking a social web service that has nice perks rather than a way through life. Understanding how it can help people grow from young adults into a proper middle aged adult would help drive long tail engagement. The drive to build a community is good, just remember you are helping to grow minds from both ends not just the youth. Teaching is a great way to learn. Perhaps there are opertunities to have rabinical lectures that are geared towards middle age adults and those adults get to transfer the knowlege to young adults and children. Perhaps there are ways to bring the elderly in to the community not as an atrifact from some bygone age but as someone who has an understanding of the stuggles of life in each age down the road. 
	Investing the in future in a cross-generational effort that can only be completed if all parties are engaged in the conversation. The componded knowlege of the elders should always be something that can be integrated into the life of today. No matter the number of technologial advancements we make in everyday life we are still dealing with other human beings and it takes time to understand a system that commplex.
Peace,
Toli